docs(pie-docs): DSW-424 add iconography code page (#741)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-docs/src/foundations/iconography/code.md

    key: Code
    parent: Iconography
    order: 3
---

## Overview
- [Our packages](#our-packages)
- [Pie Icons](#pie-icons)
  - [Usage - Client-side Javascript](#usage-client-side-javascript)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Include the package](#include-the-package)
    - [HTML](#html)
    - [Invoke the package](#invoke-the-package)
  - [Usage - NodeJS](#usage-nodejs)
    - [Installation](#installation-1)
    - [Require the package](#require-the-package)
    - [Call the APIs](#call-the-apis)
- [React](#react)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Installation](#installation-2)
    - [Import into your project](#import-into-your-project)
- [Vue](#vue)
  - [Usage](#usage-1)
    - [Installation](#installation-3)
    - [Import into your project](#import-into-your-project-1)
- [Web Components](#web-components)
  - [Usage - In Lit Components](#usage-in-lit-components)
    - [Installation](#installation-4)
    - [Import into your project](#import-into-your-project-2)

---

## Our packages

We have a number of different icon packages available for use in our applications. We have a package for each framework we support, as well as a base package for the icons themselves.

---

> ## Pie Icons

Reviewer: I would use the package names for the titles for these sections, either just as is, or in brackets.

```md
## `pie-icons` 
```

or

```md
## PIE Icons (`pie-icons`)
```

> `@justeattakeaway/pie-icons` is our base icon package. It is a collection of SVG files. This means that you can use these icons in all the same ways you can use SVGs (e.g. img, background-image, inline, object, embed, iframe).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`@justeattakeaway/pie-icons` is our base icon package, from which our other icon packages extend.

It is essentially a collection of the SVG files that make up the PIE Iconset. This means that you can use these icons in all the same ways you can use SVGs (e.g. img, background-image, inline, object, embed, iframe).
```

> [This package](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/tree/main/packages/tools/pie-icons) is used to build the framework-specific icons for Web Components, React and Vue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[This package](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/tree/main/packages/tools/pie-icons) also provides a JavaScript API for the iconset, and this is what is used to build the framework-specific icons for Web Components, React and Vue.
```

{% notification {
  type: "warning",

>   message: "Whilst this package can be used for web applications, we strongly advise that you use a framework-specific implementation instead."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  message: "Whilst the `pie-icons` package can be used for web applications, we strongly advise that you use one of our framework-specific implementations instead."
```

} %}

### Usage - Client-side Javascript

To use the icons in your application, you need to include the package in your project, add the icons using data-attributes and invoke the `replace()` function:

#### Installation
You can install the package using `npm` or `yarn`:

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons
```

#### Include the package
You can load directly from the installed package, or from a CDN provider.

```html
<script src="path/to/dist/pie-icons.js"></script>
```
```html
<!-- choose one -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons"></script>
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons/dist/pie-icons.min.js"></script>
```

#### HTML

> Simply add a `data-pie-icons` attribute with the icon name to an element. You can see all of our icons on the [library page](http://localhost:8080/foundations/iconography/library/).

Reviewer 2: Localhost?

Author: whoops!

```html

> <i data-pie-icons="menu"></i>

Reviewer 2: Is `i` the right element here?

Author: It's plucked from the package readme, the entire element is replaced so I don't think it hugely matters but as I understand historically some icon libraries have used the `i` element for icon placeholders which is why I think this package suggests the same.

```

#### Invoke the package
Calling the `replace()` function will replace all elements with the `data-pie-icons` attribute with the relevant icon.

```html
<script>
  window['pie-icons'].default.replace();
</script>
```
---

### Usage - NodeJS

#### Installation
You can install the package using `npm` or `yarn`:

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons
```

#### Require the package
Simply require the package in your application where needed:

```js
const pieicons = require('@justeattakeaway/pie-icons');
```

#### Call the APIs
The package exposes a number of APIs for you to use:

```js
pieicons.icons.x
// {
//    name: 'x',
//    contents: '<line ... /><line ... />`,
//    tags: ['cancel', 'close', 'delete', 'remove'],
//    attrs: {
//      class: 'c-pieIcon c-pieIcon--x',
//      xmlns: 'http://www.w3.org/2000/svg',
//    },
//    toSvg: [Function],
// }

pieicons.icons.x.toSvg()
// <svg class="c-pieIcon c-pieIcon--x" ...><line ... /><line ... /></svg>

pieicons.icons.x.toSvg({ class: 'foo bar', 'stroke-width': 1, color: 'red' })

> // <svg class="c-pieIcon c-pieIcon--x foo bar" stroke-width="1" color="red" ...><line ... /><line ... /></svg>

Reviewer: I haven't tested this, but I think you currently need to reference `default` in this call (as that looks like what is done in the build scripts atm).

So in the `pie-icons-webc` package we do:

```js
import pieIcons from '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons';
const { icons } = pieIcons.default;

icons.x.toSvg({ class: 'foo bar', 'stroke-width': 1, color: 'red' })
```

Reviewer: Think this is still an issue.

```

{% notification {
  type: "information",
  message: "For more information about the APIs in this package, please take a look at the [API reference](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/tree/main/packages/tools/pie-icons#api-reference) in the project README."
} %}

---

> ## React

Reviewer: Same for these:

```md
## `pie-icons-react`
```

or 
```md
## React (`pie-icons-react`)
```

> This package generates an icon set for React applications using the base [pie-icons](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons) package. The SVGs in pie-icons are compiled into React components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package generates an icon set for React applications using the base [pie-icons](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons) package. The SVGs in `pie-icons` are compiled into React components.
```

> The icons are bundled in CommonJS and ES Modules, to be more easily adopted for modern React Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icons are bundled as CommonJS and ES Modules, to be more easily adopted for modern React Applications.
```

### Usage

#### Installation
You can install the package using `npm` or `yarn`:

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-react --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-react
```

#### Import into your project
Simply import the icons you need into your project:

```tsx
import { IconAlertTriangleLarge, IconCalendar } from "@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-react";

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <IconCalendar />
      <IconAlertTriangleLarge fill={PIE_ALIAS_COLOR_TOKEN} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

> 

Reviewer: I would probably mention the `size` prop – likely at the end of all the packages (as I think it's the same across all of them) – but it could be linked here once it's added too

{% notification {
  type: "information",
  message: "For more information, please refer to the package [README](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/blob/main/packages/tools/pie-icons-react/README.md)."
} %}

---

> ## Vue

Reviewer: ```md
## `pie-icons-vue`
```

or 
```md
## Vue (`pie-icons-vue`)
```

> This package generates an icon set for Vue.js applications using the base [pie-icons](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons) package. The SVGs in pie-icons are compiled into single file components that can be imported into Vue applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package generates an icon set for Vue.js applications using the base [pie-icons](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons) package. The SVGs in `pie-icons` are compiled into single file components that can be imported into Vue applications.
```

{% notification {
  type: "warning",
  message: "The package is fully compatible with Vue 2. To use these icons in Vue 3, you may need to take some extra steps when building your application. Please reach out to **#help-designsystem** for assistance."
} %}

### Usage

#### Installation
You can install the package using `npm` or `yarn`:

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-vue --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-vue
```

#### Import into your project
Simply import the icons you need into your project:

```html
  <template>
      <icon-calendar />

>       <icon-alert-triangle-large fill={PIE_ALIAS_COLOR_TOKEN} />

Reviewer: Probably worth checking this, but the recommended way for people to set fill is via CSS now (I think for all of the libraries).

The SVGs should set the fill to `currentColor`, so then consumers can just set the fill colour by setting `color: #hexcode`

  </template>

  <script>
  import { IconCalendar, IconAlertTriangleLarge } from '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-vue';

  export default {
      components: {
          IconCalendar,
          IconAlertTriangleLarge
      }
  };
  </script>
  ```

> 

Reviewer: Same as above re the `size` prop

{% notification {
  type: "information",

>   message: "For more information, please refer to the package [README](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/blob/main/packages/tools/pie-icons-vue/README.md)."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  message: "For more information, please refer to the [package README](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/blob/main/packages/tools/pie-icons-vue/README.md)."
```

} %}

---

> ## Web Components

Reviewer: Same here:

```md
## `pie-icons-webc`
```

or 
```md
## Web Components (`pie-icons-webc`)
```

Author: Sure - it doesn't look great using back ticks in the header so I'll go with the latter format but omit the back ticks :)

> This package generates a framework-agnostic Web Component icon set for web applications. It uses the base [pie-icons](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons) package. The SVGs in pie-icons are compiled into [Lit](https://lit.dev/) web components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package generates a framework-agnostic Web Component icon set for web applications. It uses the base [pie-icons](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeattakeaway/pie-icons) package. The SVGs in `pie-icons` are compiled into [Lit](https://lit.dev/) web components.
```

{% notification {
  type: "warning",
  message: "Our Web Components package is still in **active development** and is not yet production ready. We will be adding integration guides for different frameworks in the near future."
} %}

### Usage - In Lit Components

#### Installation

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-webc --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-webc
```

#### Import into your project
We suggest importing the bundle for an individual component directly.

```js

> import '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-webc/icons/IconAppRestaurant';

Reviewer: This will be different depending on if people are using TS or JS (weirdly, I just checked our modal and it looks like that points to the JS path even though it's TS!).

Not sure if it's worth mentioning that here though and the two different paths

```suggestion
import '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-webc/icons/IconAppRestaurant'; // Import the typescript version of the icon
// OR
import '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-webc/dist/icons/IconAppRestaurant.js'; // Import the ESM version of the icon
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe not a discussion for this PR, but one thing I still need to wrap my head around is when people will want to import the TS version. If we provide a JS component, type declarations and a type map, do we still need to export the TS file?

Reviewer: My honest answer is – I'm not sure. It's probably a question to ask the Skip engineers over what they'd expect from a component like this when using it in a TS application.

I'd be happy to just have the single export available if that makes it simpler to understand and doesn't detriment anything when importing the JS version in a TS app. If there's a clear benefit to using the TS version then would be interested in knowing it, as like you say, the JS version should provide everything they need anyway?

export class MyAmazingComponent extends LitElement {
  render () {
    return html`
      <h2>
        This is a heading
        <icon-app-restaurant size="xl" />
      </h2>`;
  }
}
```

{% notification {
  type: "information",

>   message: "For more information, please refer to the package [README](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/blob/main/packages/tools/pie-icons-webc/README.md)."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  message: "For more information, please refer to the [package README](https://github.com/justeattakeaway/pie/blob/main/packages/tools/pie-icons-webc/README.md)."
```

The icons are bundled as CommonJS and ES Modules, to be more easily adopted for modern React Applications.

### Usage

#### Installation
You can install the package using `npm` or `yarn`:

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-react --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-react
```

#### Import into your project
Simply import the icons you need into your project:

```tsx
import { IconAlertTriangleLarge, IconCalendar } from "@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-react";

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <IconCalendar />
      <IconAlertTriangleLarge />
    </div>
  );
}
```

#### Size

Icons are made available in different size variants:
- small
- large, when its name has the `Large` suffix

Small icons default size is `xs` and can use one of the following pre-determined values for `size`: `xs`, `s`, `m`, `l`, `xl`, and `xxl`. You can learn more about small icon sizes [here](/foundations/iconography/overview/#:~:text=Sizes%20for%20the%20Small%20icon%20set).

> Large icons `size` default and minimum value is `32`. Values larger than the minimum must be multiples of `8`, otherwise will be automatically rounded. You can learn more about large icon sizes [here](/foundations/iconography/overview/#:~:text=Sizes%20for%20the%20Large%20icon%20set).

Reviewer 2: I think invalid values fall back to the default rather than being rounded

Reviewer 2: It's in a couple more places below too

} %}

### Usage

#### Installation
You can install the package using `npm` or `yarn`:

```sh
npm install @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-vue --save
```
```sh
yarn add @justeattakeaway/pie-icons-vue
```

#### Import into your project
Simply import the icons you need into your project:

```html
  <template>
      <icon-calendar />
      <icon-alert-triangle-large />
  </template>

  <script>
  import { IconCalendar, IconAlertTriangleLarge } from '@justeattakeaway/pie-icons-vue';

  export default {
      components: {
          IconCalendar,
          IconAlertTriangleLarge
      }
  };

  </script>
  <style>
    svg {
      fill: {PIE_ALIAS_COLOR_TOKEN};
    }
  </style>
  ```

#### Size

Icons are made available in different size variants:
- small
- large, when its name has the `Large` suffix

Small icons default size is `xs` and can use one of the following pre-determined values for `size`: `xs`, `s`, `m`, `l`, `xl`, and `xxl`. You can learn more about small icon sizes [here](/foundations/iconography/overview/#:~:text=Sizes%20for%20the%20Small%20icon%20set).

> Large icons `size` default and minimum value is `32`. Values larger than the minimum must be multiples of `8`, otherwise will be automatically rounded. You can learn more about large icon sizes [here](/foundations/iconography/overview/#:~:text=Sizes%20for%20the%20Large%20icon%20set).

Reviewer 2: Ditto here
